both Israel and Hamas have been accused
of violating International humanitarian
law with their attacks on civilians
Israel has dropped thousands of bombs on
crowded residential areas of Gaza
flattening entire neighborhoods these
indiscriminate attacks on civilians are
in violation of article 25 of the ha
conventions a series of international
treaties legal experts say that the
intentional targeting of civilians by
both Hamas and Israel also constitutes a
war crime as since Hamas launched its
military operation last Saturday killing
1300 Israelis the Israel military has
imposed a total Siege on Gaza which had
already been under a Land Air and sea
blockade for the past 16 years
Palestinians and Aid workers say that
the lack of food medicine Fuel and basic
supplies has made the situation in the
Gaza Strip quote
catastrophic at least 28 healthcare
workers in Gaza have been directly
targeted by Israeli strikes and then
there's the evacuation order for
hospitals in Northern Gaza the World
Health Organization says that it's a
quote death sentence for more than 2,000
vulnerable people including newborn
babies and patients in intensive care
Palestinians in Gaza describe the forced
evacuation order in the North and the
Relentless bombardment as quote
Collective punishment and under the
Fourth Geneva Convention Israel as the
occupying power here is prohibited from
deporting or transferring parts of the
population from the land that it
occupies all right let's bring in uh
franches albanesi you are the United
Nations special reporter on occupied
Palestinian territory you're joining us
from lisia tur in Italy you have said
quote that Israel has already carried
out Mass ethnic cleansing of
Palestinians and is again quote again in
the name of self-defense seeking to
justify what would amount to ethnic
cleansing do you feel that that message
your message is being heard within the
United
Nations uh hi seral thanks for having me
I I don't know I don't have uh the any
sign that this is being considered at
the UN level at the UN at the level of
the security Council and the Secretary
General I've been calling desperately
for an immediate CIS fire because this
is this is what is needed right now um
no one questions that Israel has been
severely hit by crimes that are my
amount to atrocity crimes by what is
being conducted by Hamas on the 7th of
October and since the 7th of October
there is an investigation ongoing by the
commission of inquiry uh appointed in
2021 by the Human Rights Council and
there is also an investigation being
carried out by the uh international
criminal court of which we we know
nothing but at the same time what's
happening what I see happening and I
want to recall that before being the
special reporter I've been known as a
scholar uh studying the the M Force
displacement of Palestinians since
1947 what I see is that there are there
is once again an instance where Israel
is ordering large this is the largest
number of Palestinians in Gaza ever
being ordered to uh to vacate an area
and under the fog of War have already
seen forceable transfer happening in
1947 49 in 1967 and this has been and
this is happening I mean this risk to
happen now even others like NRC the
Norwegian Refugee Council has talked of
it has warned against the risk of a
humanitarian ethnic cleansing so you
called for an immediate ceasefire to
avoid exactly that now I looked and I
can't find a similar call an identical
call by the UN Secretary General does
that trouble
you it does
do you want to elaborate on that because
of course of course it does because it
there is a what we have right now it's
on the one hand Israeli officials saying
that they what they want is to uh
eliminate uh Hamas Hamas uh um militants
destroy Hamas which might I mean which
might be a a legitimate military Target
but what we see on the ground so far is
that um two 2,400 people have been
killed among whom 500 children 10,000
people have been injured there have been
there has been a severe bombing and
targeted strikes with a huge number of
missiles resulting into widespread
indiscriminate destruction of Civilian
homes roads shops clinics and other
essential infrastructure there is a a
Siege over over a Siege because there is
no water no electricity and no food
entering Gaza while the existing
depleted infrastructure because as you
rightly call recalled at the beginning
Gaza has already been under uh 16 year
of full Siege and let's not forget it
has already s suffered five of these
massive Wars and now Israel is also
targeting entire civilian neighborhoods
damaging hospitals schools and including
targeting ambulances clinics and medical
personnel so how can these on Earth
being considered proportional without
any respect for precaution and the
principle of distinctions so this must
stop you know this is interesting
because you are the person at the United
Nations who is tasked with looking at
and assessing uh the human rights of
Palestinians in occupied Palestinian
territories you're saying that we're in
danger of mass ethnic cleansing you're
saying that mass ethnic cleansing has
already occurred in the past and you're
calling for a ceasefire and you feel
that your calls are not being heard
within your own organization so the
question is how would you assess the
un's response so
far now you know it's interesting
because the reason why I refer to uh
ethnic cleansing repeating its history
repeating itself is precisely after I
saw NRC talking of um
humanitarian uh ethnic cleansing because
indeed what is some Israeli officials
are saying is that the the the
Palestinians have to move South South
where the the the the Gaza Strip is
sealed off they want them to move to to
the Sinai where they will be provided
assistance um and this is what has
happened since 1947 1949 so you know I
mean I've been the one ping for
humanitarian Ian corridors together with
other 33 or 34 special repur it's a huge
number and I've been told look this is
the from Palestinians in Gaza till they
had electricity to communicate with me
uh human rights organization saying look
this is the last bit of Palestine that
remains to us this has nothing to do
with AAS we don't want to enter a new
page of refugee Hood why can't
humanitarian corridors being open to the
West Bank for example or to the South
siai because this these people are
civilians so this is what we have to uh
think of and yes I'm very concerned that
I don't see I can't hear anyone in the
United Nations calling for an immediate
ceasefire and also Israel should provide
a an idea not to the public but at least
to the United Nations on how the
dismantlement of Hamas uh is to happen
or it's happening because what we see
now it's a massive operation which has
killed already too many
civilians Franchesca albanesi United
Nations special raor on the occupied
Palestinian territories thank you for
joining us on the program today